Resource Tool:
Use for:

Three by Three

Reserved

The 3x3 capacity matrix is a useful tool for individuals to focus their roles , align their goals and
measure success. This helps maintain focus in key areas while also providing a clear framework
for assessing performance and success.

When to Use: When teams or individuals feel isolated or disconnected from the rest of the

organization or their colleagues. When collaboration, communication or team
cohesion is lacking.

Benefits: Promotes a collaborative approach to goal setting and achievement, enhancing

communication and strengthening connections among teams, individual roles, and
organizational objectives. Encourages transparency and regular review, fostering
better communication and alignment within the team. The 3x3 helps individuals
understand how their roles contribute to the team’s success, enhancing connection.

Instructions:
Identify Top Three Roles: Reflect on your current professional landscape and identify the three
roles you primarily occupy as it relates to your levels of connection. These roles should reflect
your major responsibilities or the areas where you spend most of your time.
List Associated Goals: For each role, list the primary goals you aim to achieve. These goals should
be specific, measurable, achievable and time-bound.
Define Controls: For each goal, define a control—a specific statement or metric that proves your
success in achieving the goal. This could be a performance metric, a completed project, or a
significant achievement.
The following are suggested target areas for goal setting for an individual in RESERVED.:
Active Listening
Regular Check-In

Mentorship Programs
Team Building

Engage in Hobbies
Quality Time
Acts of Kindness

Role

Goal

Control

Example:
Personal

Example:
Set aside one hour of uninterrupted
quality time with loved ones at the
end of each work day.

Example:
Consistency and quality of interactions
will increase. I will feel a sense of
fulfillment and increased connection in
relationships

Role 1

Goal 1

Control 1

Role 2

Goal 2

Control 2

Role 3

Goal 3

Control 3


