Resource Tool:
Use for:

Load Management

Fatigued
Indulgent

This tool offers a structured approach to assess and optimize your routines, Reserved
habits, and self-care practices to align with a more meaningful and purposeful
life. By focusing on three key phases of the day, this guide will help individuals
ensure they are living each day with intention and fulfilment.

Instructions:
Complete the following questionnaire for recommended focus areas.
Answer the following statements as either True or False based on your typical workday.

Pre-Work Focus
I often find myself rushing in the mornings, struggling to get organized before starting work.
I usually feel unprepared and frazzled when I begin my workday.
I rarely have time to set clear goals or plan my tasks before starting work.

During Work Focus
I often get distracted during work and struggle to maintain focus on tasks.
I find it difficult to take regular breaks, even when I know I need them.

I frequently feel unproductive or disengaged while working.

Post-Work Focus
I struggle to relax and unwind after the workday is over.
I often finish the day feeling like I didn’t accomplish enough.
I rarely take time to reflect on my day and plan for tomorrow.

T/F

Resource Tool:

Load Management

Use for:
Fatigued
Indulgent

This tool offers a structured approach to assess and optimize your routines,
habits, and self-care practices to align with a more meaningful and purposeful Reserved
life. By focusing on three key phases of the day, this guide will help individuals
ensure they are living each day with intention and fulfilment.

Time of Day

Pre-Work

During Work

Post Work

Hover over for
digitization - more
info on each task

Focus Area

Key Activities

Preparation

Review Daily Goals
Plan Tasks and Prioritize
Mental Warm-Up (Meditation, Light
Exercise)

Prioritization

Time blocking for key tasks
Regular breaks
Task switching to stay engaged

Reflection and Relaxation

Review completed tasks
Identify areas for improvement
Relaxation activities (hobbies, family
time)

Resource Tool:

Load Management
This tool offers a structured approach to assess and optimize your routines,
habits, and self-care practices to align with a more meaningful and
purposeful life. By focusing on three key phases of the day, this guide will
help individuals ensure they are living each day with intention and fulfilment.

Use for:
Fatigued
Indulgent
Reserved

consistent morning routine helps prevent burnout by creating stability and purpose, this helps reduce
Pre-workday: Astress
from unpredictable mornings while prioritizing personal well-being from the start of the day.

Wake-up Time Set a consistent wake-up time to start your day with regularity.
Tips: Use of a bedtime routine builder, or sleep application, suggestions on how to start waking earlier. Natural
ways to adjust circadian rhythm. For more information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Getting less than six hours of sleep has a bigger impact on mental burn out than daily
stress. Insufficient sleep is one of the main causes of burnout (Söderström et al., 2012)

Mindfulness Engage in a 5-10 minute mindfulness practice, meditation or deep breathing.
Tips: Journaling, setting daily intentions, physical movement, stretching, reading or listening to something you
enjoy, doing mundane tasks with intention, body scan, box breathing,
What the Research Says: Mindfulness-based training is effective at reducing burnout through the three
components of burnout: emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and personal accomplishment (Wang et al.,
2023).

Physical Activity Incorporate light exercise or stretching to energize your body
Tips: Morning stretches, a light 10 minute walk.
What the Research Says: Individuals that engage in aerobic exercise and/or strength based training are less likely
to experience burnout and have a higher quality of life (Dyrbye et al., 2017).

Healthy Food Choices If you eat breakfast try to choose healthy, easy to prepare foods.
Tips: Choose foods that fuel the body (protein, fiber and healthy fats). Eating the same thing for breakfast
everyday helps eliminate the stress of making food choices and can offer a sense of control and accomplishment at
the beginning of the day. Complex carbohydrates help with burnout and stress. For more information on these tips
see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Regularly consuming healthy foods is associated with low burnout symptoms (Penttinen
et al., 2021).

Goal Setting

Outline primary goals for the day. Prioritize tasks that align with your
values and long-term aspirations.

Tips: Plan your day by reviewing your schedule. Make adjustments as needed ensuring you have time for breaks
and personal activities.

What the Research Says: Prioritizing goals and activities significantly reduces burnout (Pakseresht et al., 2014).

Resource Tool:
Use for:

Load Management

Fatigued
Indulgent

This tool offers a structured approach to assess and optimize your routines, Reserved
habits, and self-care practices to align with a more meaningful and
purposeful life. By focusing on three key phases of the day, this guide will
help individuals ensure they are living each day with intention and fulfilment.
focused work while implementing breaks helps with productivity while ensuring
During workday: Balancing
continuous self-care and throughout the work day.

Work Habits
Focus Blocks Work in focused intervals (e.g. Pomodoro Technique).
Tips: Combining focused work with regular breaks allows for sustained productivity while preventing
burnout. Breaking up tasks into manageable chunks (25 minutes of work, 5 minutes of rest). Use breaks to
relax and recharge.
What the Research Says: Need Reference Here

Task Prioritization Prioritizing tasks can help manage workloads.

Tips: Assess the resources needed to carry out each task, the amount of effort each will require and the level
of importance. Use of most productive time to tackle more complex and mentally taxing tasks. For more
information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Time management practices can improve psychological health and alleviate
burnout (Hu et al., 2020).

Minimize Distractions Identify common distractions and minimize them.
Tips: Turn off non-essential notifications
What the Research Says: Need Reference Here

Self-Care
Hydration & Nutrition
Tips: Higher Proteins (Adequate protein intake can also be achieved by combining plant-based and animal protein
sources), drink plenty of water, limit alcohol, avoid crash diets: Poor nutrition and inadequate calorie intake can
cause fatigue. Ensure you are getting essential nutrients. Smaller is better for lunch (prevents feeling sluggish, too
full, bloated, tired etc.) For more information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Your eating habit can either make you feel sluggish or keep you energized.
https://www.health.harvard.edu/healthbeat/eating-to-boost-energy

Movement

Tips: Incorporate short movement breaks to prevent stiffness and improve circulation. For more information on
these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Provides education on stretch breaks, frequency, and why it is important
https://www.workplacewellnessonline.ca/pdfs/Taking%20active%20breaks%20at%20work.pdf

Mental Check-Ins

Mental Check Ins

Tips: Periodically assess your mental state. Practice quick mindfulness exercises if you feel stressed or
overwhelmed.
What the Research Says: Need Reference Here

Accountability Checklist for

Load Management

Post-workday
Reflection
Review Your Day

Tips: Reflect on what you accomplished and what could be improved. Celebrate your successes, no matter
how small.
What the Research Says: When people Self-Reflect, they tend to show a stronger alignment between their
self-reports and actual performance (Gerace et al., 2017).

Journaling
Tips: Spend a few minutes journaling about your experiences, thoughts, and feelings. This can help identify
patterns and areas for growth. For more information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: https://hbr.org/2022/03/dont-underestimate-the-power-of-self-reflection

Evening Routine
Unplug
Tips: Disconnect from work-related devices and activities at least an hour before bedtime to relax your
mind. For more information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.
What the Research Says: Need Resource Here

Wind Down
Tips: Engage in relaxing activities such as reading, gentle yoga, or a warm bath.
What the Research Says: Need Resource Here

Sleep Hygiene

Tips: Ensure your sleeping environment is conducive to rest. Maintain a regular sleep schedule and avoid
stimulants like caffeine before bed. For more information on these tips see the Load Management Resource Page.

What the Research Says: Obtaining healthy sleep is important for both physical and mental health,
improving productivity and overall quality of life. https://www.sleepfoundation.org/sleep-hygiene

Connection
Social Interactions

Tips: Spend quality time with family or friends. Meaningful social connections can boost your mood and sense of
belonging.
What the Research Says: Social relationships—both quantity and quality—affect mental health, health
behavior, physical health, and mortality risk (Umberson & Montez, 2010).

H bbi

dI t

t

Hobbies and Interests

Tips: Dedicate time to hobbies or activities that bring you joy and fulfillment.

What the Research Says: Enjoyable activities may be salutary, especially during times of stress and in the
recovery period post stress (Pressman et al., 2009).


